BERT is a transformer-based model developed by researchers at Google. It achieved state-of-the-art results on a wide variety of natural language processing tasks. It was introduced in 2018.
Bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT) is a language model introduced in October 2018 by researchers at Google.[1][2] It learns to represent text as a sequence of vectors using self-supervised learning. It uses the encoder-only transformer architecture. BERT dramatically improved the state-of-the-art for large language models. As of 2020, BERT is a ubiquitous baseline in natural language processing (NLP) experiments.[3]

BERT is trained by masked token prediction and next sentence prediction. As a result of this training process, BERT learns contextual, latent representations of tokens in their context, similar to ELMo and GPT-2.[4] It found applications for many natural language processing tasks, such as coreference resolution and polysemy resolution.[5] It is an evolutionary step over ELMo, and spawned the study of "BERTology", which attempts to interpret what is learned by BERT.[3]

BERT was originally implemented in the English language at two model sizes, BERTBASE (110 million parameters) and BERTLARGE (340 million parameters). Both were trained on the Toronto BookCorpus[6] (800M words) and English Wikipedia (2,500M words).[1]: 5  The weights were released on GitHub.[7] On March 11, 2020, 24 smaller models were released, the smallest being BERTTINY with just 4 million parameters.[7]

London, the storied metropolis, once again reigns supreme in the 2025 World’s Best Cities ranking, securing the top spot for the 10th year in a row. Navigating the complexities of a post-Brexit era, geopolitical uncertainties and economic challenges, London’s resilient spirit and unmatched global appeal have solidified its place at the pinnacle of our annual ranking. It is the only city in this year’s ranking to capture the top spot in an impressive seven of our 28 subcategories, from Nightlife and Museums to Instagram Hashtags.